# L13

## Important Links

- [All about bytes](https://jeancvllr.medium.com/solidity-tutorial-all-about-bytes-9d88fdb22676) [1]
- [Explicit conversion](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.10/types.html#explicit-conversions)

## Solidity Bytes

Before attempting this level, you really need some understanding of how solidity handles bytes and masking concept.

Solidity have fixed sized bytes arrays as types ranging from `bytes1` to `bytes32`.
Conversion from `integers` to `bytes` is handled differently in solidity due to
the differences in mechanisms used to store ints and bytes on the chain. Bytes are
stored as big endian while ints are stored as little endian on-chain.

- **Big-Endian**: first byte is stored first
- **Little-Endian**: last byte is stored first

### For Example:

uint64 a = 1 is stored as
> 0x00000001

bytes4 a = 1 is stored as
> 0x0100000000

Also, solidity adds extra garbage values when a small number `eg: uint8` is converted to a relatively big number `eg: bytes8`
So, uint8 a = 10 when converted to bytes8 becomes `0x0a00000000000000`

You can play around bytes with Seth from [dapptools](https://github.com/dapphub/dapptools) or Cast from [foundry](https://github.com/gakonst/foundry) or in Remix for begineers like me.

## Level Hints

Now to pass this level, [L4](../L4/L4.sol) would help in understanding global
variables like `tx.origin`, then to pass gate 2, you can leverage Remix to debug
your transaction by first sending an arbitrary amount of gas and counting the tx gas
cost till `gasLeft()` fn.

We can then leverage brute force loop to spam the contract for all values in range `±30` of the counted gas.

For gate 3, from third condition, we can see that the key will be created from `tx.origin` and masked to be created from other conditions.

**Condition 1**:
> uint32(uint64(_key)) == uint16(uint64(_key))

bytes8 in hex form will look like `0x0000000000000000`, as shown above that conversion to bytes and int works differently in solidity due to storage differences.
Hence, our mask should look something like `0x0000FFFF` to reduce first 4 bytes of `uint32` key to zero.

**Condition 2**:
> uint32(uint64(_key)) != uint64(_key)

To not make it same, we will mask the first 8 bytes of the key to be same using the mask `0xFFFFFFFF`.

**Condition 3**:
> uint32(uint64(_key)) == uint16(tx.origin)

this condition confirms to and the tx.origin with our mask.

Hence, the key becomes

```solidity
bytes8 key = bytes8(uint64(uint160(tx.origin))) & 0xFFFFFFFF0000FFFF
```
